DOCSP-43339 doc for Automation (#14)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/automation.txt

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: atlas architecture center
   :description: Learn about the different Atlas tools to automate the provisioning and management of Atlas clusters and projects.

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: onecol

|service-fullname| provides an easy way to host and manage your data in
the cloud. It includes tools that automate the deployment, scaling, and

> maintenance of your {+service+} {+clusters+} and streamline operations,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maintenance of your {+service+} {+clusters+} to streamline operations,
```

reduce manual interventions, and ensure consistent, policy-compliant
deployments. These tools offer you the flexibility to work with

> |service| through direct scripting, a Kubernetes native workflow, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|service| through direct scripting, a Kubernetes-native workflow, or
```

using Infrastructure as Code (IaC) resources.    

{+service+} Features and Best Practices for Automation
------------------------------------------------------

You can automate the management, provisioning, and configuration of
|service| building blocks like database users and roles, |service|
{+clusters+}, projects and organizations. Additionally, you can automate 
setting up and managing of additional {+clusters+} resources, including
enabling auto-scaling and disk scaling, creating and updating
multi-cloud {+clusters+}, monitoring {+cluster+} performance and health,
automating backups and restores, defining backup policies, and many more.   

You can align your choice of tools with your preferred workflow to
ensure seamless integration of |service-fullname| into your existing
processes. The following |service-fullname| tools allow you to easily
deploy and manage |service| at scale with repeatable, accurate, and
scalable processes. 

{+atlas-admin-api+} 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The {+atlas-admin-api+} provides a |rest|\ful interface that allows you

> to leverage your preferred client such as cURL, Postman, and so on to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to leverage your preferred client such as cURL or Postman to
```

directly interact with |api| endpoints that correspond to |service|
resources.   

To learn more, see :ref:`atlas-admin-api-access`.

GoSDK Client 
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The GoSDK client simplifies interaction with the {+atlas-admin-api+} by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {+service+} Go SDK client simplifies interaction with the {+atlas-admin-api+} by
```

providing pre-built functions and full |api| endpoint coverage. The SDK
provides platform-specific and GoLang language-specific tools,
libraries, and documentation to help build applications quickly and
easily.  

To learn more, see :ref:`Atlas Go SDK <atlas-admin-sdk>`.

Infrastructure as Code (IaC) Integrations 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The integrations with the following :abbr:`IaC (Infrastructure as Code)`
tools automate the deployment of |service| resources.

.. list-table:: 
   :stub-columns: 1 

>    * - HashiCorp Terraform MongoDB Atlas Provider

Reviewer: Can we take the IaC options out of the table and just use subheadings? I think it would make it easier to notice them as equivalent options to the ones above

     - Provisions |service| resources across cloud providers (|aws|,
       |azure|, |gcp|) in the workflow of your choice. It allows you to
       integrate |service| into your continuous delivery workflows with 
       the official plugin that is verified and tested by HashiCorp.

       Alternatively, you can use the :abbr:`CDKTF (Cloud Development
       Kit for Terraform)` to deploy |service| in preferred languages
       such as JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Java, C#, and Go. 

>        To learn more, see :ref:`getting-started-terraform` and
>        :ref:`Deploy MongoDB Atlas with Terraform
>        <getting-started-terraform>`.  

Reviewer: These links go to the same place, so changing one to the Hashicorp link. Also adding that Terraform examples are provided throughout these docs.

```suggestion
       To learn more, see :ref:`getting-started-terraform` and |service-terraform|. You can also use the Terraform examples in the {+atlas-arch-center+} such as the :ref:`Org, Project, and Cluster<arch-center-hierarchy>` examples to get started.
```

   * - CloudFormation Resources
     - Resources to manage |service| include:
      
       - :github:`JSON and YAML templates
         <mongodb/mongodbatlas-cloudformation-resources>` allow you to
         leverage multiple different types of |service| resources in the
         |aws| CloudFormation Public Registry.  
       - `AWS Partner Solutions <https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/>`__
         enable you to set up an |service| environment in |aws| by using
         a pre-defined CloudFormation template that creates an |service|

>          project with a standard, single-Region, ``M10`` {+cluster+}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         project with a standard, single-region, ``M10`` {+cluster+}.
```

       - `AWS Cloud Development Kit (CDK)
         <https://constructs.dev/search?q=&keywords=MongoDB&offset=0>`__
         defines infrastructure using familiar programming languages
         such as JavaScript, TypeScript, Python, Java, C#, and Go.

       To learn more, see `Deploy MongoDB Atlas with AWS CloudFormation
       <https://www.mongodb.com/developer/products/atlas/deploy-mongodb-atlas-aws-cloudformation/>`__.
   
   * - {+atlas-cli+} 
     - Enables you to create, manage, and automate tasks related to
       |service| resources from a unified command line tool.

>        To learn more, see :ref:`atlas-cli-ephemeral-cluster` and
>        :ref:`Quick Start <atlas-cli-quick-start>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       To learn more, see :ref:`atlas-cli-ephemeral-cluster` and
       :ref:`Quick Start <atlas-cli-quick-start>`. You can also use the {+atlas-cli+} examples in the {+atlas-arch-center+} such as the :ref:`Org, Project, and Cluster<arch-center-hierarchy>` examples to get started.
```
